WebTransport OT interface updates (#5302)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/webtransport/index.md

  - api
---

{% Aside 'caution' %}

> This proposal continues to undergo changes during the origin trial period. There 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This proposal continues to change during the origin trial period. There 
```

Once you have a WebTransport instance that's connected to a server, you can use it to send and receive discrete bits of data, known as [datagrams](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Datagram).

The `writeable` getter returns a <code>[WritableStream](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WritableStream)</code>, which a web client can use to send data to the server. The <code>readable</code> getter returns a <code>[ReadableStream](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ReadableStream)</code>, allowing you to listen for data from the server. Both streams are inherently unreliable, so it is possible that the data you write will not be received by the server, and vice versa.

Both types of streams use <code>[Uint8Array](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array)</code> instances for data transfer.

```js
// Send two datagrams to the server.

> const writer = transport.writeable.getWriter();

Reviewer 2: Still wrong.
In Chrome 91 Beta it's `transport.datagramsWritable.getWriter()`.
In W3C spec it's `transport.datagrams.writable.getWriter()`.

const data1 = new Uint8Array([65, 66, 67]);
const data2 = new Uint8Array([68, 69, 70]);
writer.write(data1);
writer.write(data2);

// Read datagrams from the server.

> const reader = transport.readable.getReader();

Reviewer 2: `transport.datagrams.readable.getReader()`

Once you have a WebTransport instance that's connected to a server, you can use it to send and receive discrete bits of data, known as [datagrams](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Datagram).

> The `writeable` getter returns a <code>[WritableStream](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WritableStream)</code>, which a web client can use to send data to the server. The <code>readable</code> getter returns a <code>[ReadableStream](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ReadableStream)</code>, allowing you to listen for data from the server. Both streams are inherently unreliable, so it is possible that the data you write will not be received by the server, and vice versa.

Reviewer: I can't find `writeable` or `readable`. What objects do they come from?

Reviewer 2: They are from `transport.datagrams` that is of *DatagramDuplexStream Interface*, but the current write-up looks as if they are directly on the `transport` object.

Author: The code sample in the following section should be accurate now, and show how to access `writeable` and `readable`.

Reviewer: I don't know why I couldn't find those yesterday. I see them now.
